---
layout: post
title: CompTIA A+ Part 7
date: 2020-09-02 23:32:00
last_modified_at: 2020-09-02 23:32:00
---

### Thunderbolt

Thunderbolt 1 runs at 10 Gbps across 2 channels for a total throughput of 20 Gbps.

Thunderbolt 2 runs at 20 Gbps.

Thunderbolt 3 runs at 40 Gbps.

Thunderbolt is a very versatile standard and can power data transfers, video, etc.

Thunderbolt 1 and 2 used mini-DP connectors. Thunderbolt 3 uses a USB-C connector.

### Lightning

Lightning is a proprietary Apple-exclusive connector, although Thunderbolt is beginning to appear on many Apple devices.

Lightning runs at 5 Gbps.

### Keyboards and Mice

Wireless USB peripherals typically use batteries, but higher end devices have rechargeable lithium batteries. Many modern wireless mice have very low latency.

Wired USB peripherals are very common.

PS/2 connectors are popular among gamers who believe PS/2 provides lower latency and better anti-ghosting. PS/2 is not hot-swappable. (Purple for keyboards, teal for mice).

Most operating systems will pull the correct default configurations for peripherals, but some configuration may be necessary. In Windows, these configurations were traditionally in Control Panel, but are being moved to Settings.

Joypads sometimes require dongles that adapt proprietary connectors to USB.

KVM (keyboard, video, mouse) switches allow you to use one set of peripherals across several machines. The peripherals plug into the switch, and the switch plugs into the individual machines. A button or switch on the KVM switch controls which machine the peripherals are connected to.

### Speakers

Generally, the simplest speaker configuration is stereo speakers (2 satellites).

2.1 includes 2 satellites and 1 subwoofer.

4.1, 5.1, and 7.1 are other common surround sound configurations.

Most PC speakers use 3.5mm jacks. They are color-coded.

| Color | Function |
| --- | --- |
| Blue | Aux Line In |
| Green | Front |
| Pink | Microphone |
| Silver | Side |
| Black | Rear |
| Orange | Subwoofer/Center |

Even cheaper motherboards generally have excellent sound quality, but audiophiles can attain better quality sound with advanced sound cards.

Sound can also be transmitted through a S/PDIF (Sony/Philips Digital Interface) connection.

Headsets generally use USB connections.

On Windows, sound is configured in Settings.

### Readers

Smart card readers read chip cards like credit cards or ID badges. These are commonly found in POS systems or high-security systems.

Magnetic readers read the data on magnetic stripes like credit cards.

Flash memory readers read flash memory cards, typically used in camcorders or DSLRs. These readers are often found on laptops.

Be familiar with the different form factors of flash memory cards: SD, mini-SD, micro-SD, and the Olympus xD (legacy card used in Olympus cameras). Why is Olympus xD on the exam and not CF? The world will never know.

Scanners use light to translate paper documents into data.

Barcode scanners and QR code readers use lasers to scan codes. These are common in IMS. All smartphones also have apps that read barcodes and QR codes.

### Expansion Cards

Power off the machine before installing expansion cards.

Some expansion cards come with extra dongles such as power connectors. They may also come with drivers (optical media or download link).

Be mindful of airflow when selecting a slot to install the card into.

Unscrew the thumbscrew and remove the shield.

Make sure you plug PCI cards into PCI slots and PCIe cards into PCIe slots.

Remember that smaller PCIe cards can fit into larger PCIe slots, such as a x1 card into a x16 slot.

Press the card into the slot and tighten the thumb screw. The thumb screw holds the card in place and often provides ground.

If you have issues, check device drivers and compatibility with the OS.

### Types of PCs

Thick clients are basic desktop PCs. At least, you need the hardware that meets the recommended requirements of your operating system.

Thin clients exist solely to connect to a network, so network connectivity should be emphasized. Thin clients do not much storage, as the thin client will most likely be connecting to a virtual machine. At best, you might need a machine that can run MS Word.

CAD/CAM workstations need powerful multi-core processors and high-end video cards. You will also want to maximize RAM.

Virtualization workstations need a high-end processor, storage (to store offline VMs), and maximum RAM.

Network attached storage (NAS) devices are usually headless systems (no peripherals, you SSH in) typically used just for sharing files. You need a good network card and something to protect data, such as a RAID array (although in this tech's opinion a backup is better).

Gaming PCs need high-end parts all around, including a high-end motherboard, processor, PSU, GPU, cooling, sound card (why?), storage (NVMe), RAM (not as much as CAD/CAM needs, but make sure it's fast).

Audio/video workstations need a good GPU, audio card, large and fast HDDs, quality monitor(s).

### Display

A pixel contains three individual elements (liquid crystal display, or LCD) in red, green, and blue. If electricity is applied to an element, it lights up. Otherwise it is opaque and light cannot pass through. Different levels of electricity allow different amounts of light to pass through.

LCDs do not produce light. They only allow light to pass through. So a blacklight must be used. Old LCDs used CCFL (cold cathode flourescent lamp), but modern displays use LEDs (light-emitting diode).

Pixels are fixed, and displays are a certain number of pixels across and a certain number of pixels down. This is resolution.

Brightness is measure in Nits (nt). Panels generally run 200-500 nt.

Response time is also an important consideration. This is how often the display refreshes pixels to give the illusion of motion. These range from 1ms-4ms.

OLED (organic LED) has three LEDs per pixel in the three colors that generate light in the different colors. This allows for thin displays and is common in smartphones.

OLEDs can also be used in flexible monitors, but this is not common.

DLP (dual light processing) uses a grid of mirrors which reflect light from a light source which goes through a spinning color wheel. This is not common in monitors, but is used in projectors.
