---
layout: post
title: CompTIA A+ Part 20
date: 2020-09-18 21:55:00
last_modified_at: 2020-09-18 21:55:00
---

### OS Maintenance

Patch Windows through Windows Update (Windows 7) or Settings (Windows 10).

Updates have KB (Knowledge Base) values associated with them so you can get more details online.

You can update BIOS through flashing, but this is risky and should only be done with great need.

Many Linux distros have graphical updaters similar to Windows Update, but why would you use them when you can use the CLI? You can also specify repositories and stuff.

Mac has a shitty GUI updater too.

In mass storage, blocks contain many pages, but you can't erase pages, you can only erase blocks. That's why fragmentation happens.

SSDs have trim, which marks empty partial blocks as writeable, so make sure you trim your SSDs. Windows automatically can tell the difference between an SSD and HDD, so just do it the way you would do a defrag (right click drive, Properties).

Almost all modern operating systems do storage optimizations automatically.

System Restore deals with applications, registry, and critical system files. You still need a backup.

Backup and Restore makes backups...

You can create a system image to create a full copy of your entire OS.

System repair disks are bootable recovery environments.

Windows has File History, Mac has Time Machine, for rolling back little changes.

You can use Task Scheduler to do OS maintenance automatically. Most stuff is already in Task Scheduler by default.

### CLI

lol

### Troubleshooting the OS

Windows Recovery Environment (WinRE) is the Windows Pre-Installation Environment (WinPE) with some extra features for troubleshooting and repair.

WinRE can do stuff like mess with partitions, repair boot, open a cmd, etc. etc. etc.

Safe Boot from Advanced Startup Options lets you boot without services (and maybe without networking).

Let's troubleshoot some boot problems now.

Black screen could indicate a lot of things. Is the PC turned on or in hibernate? Is your boot order correct? Are your device drivers ok?

Check Event Viewer and see if anything wacky is going on at boot time.

Boot device not found? Check your boot order, and check for rogue USB drives.

Shit tons of things can be fixed with a reboot. Opt for an actual Restart if you can.

```chkdsk /f``` to scan your drive for issues.

Do you have a corrupt user profile?

Do you have malware?
