---
layout: post
title: CompTIA A+ Part 4
date: 2020-08-30 23:43:00
last_modified_at: 2020-08-30 23:43:00
---

### PSUs

PSUs have a power switch on the back. Don't use this to power off your system.

Generally, air flow exits the PC through the power supply.

Power supply is something of a misnomer. PSUs do not actually supply power; your utility company does that. A PSU is actually a step-down transformer which converts AC power provided by your power company into DC power at appropriate voltages to be used by PC components.

ATX PSUs have 24-pin main power connectors. Sometimes 4 of the pins are on a separate connector because older motherboards require less power.

PSUs provide volate at three levels: 12 V, 5 V, 3.3 V. 12 V is yellow, 5 V red, 3.3 V orange.

ATX12V standards provide additional power for modern CPUs, which require a lot of power. This standard specifies additional power connectors.

Other components such as hard drives and graphics cards also have their own power connections.

Molex connections are legacy multi-purpose connectors.

Mini connectors were originally designed to power floppy drives, but occasionally you will see components that use them.

SATA connectors power hard drives and optical media drives.

PCIe connectors power GPUs.

Higher-end PSUs are modular, allowing users to plug in only the connectors they need for cleaner cable management.

The major consideration when purchasing a PSU is wattage. Wattage requirements vary depending on the hardware present in the system.

Different PSUs have different efficiency ratings (some electricity is lost to heat, etc). Wattage ratings on the box are under optimal operating conditions (impossible in reality, since a PSU will almost never be at room temperature).

The 80 Plus rating system was invented to indicate high-efficiency PSUs. An 80 Plus rated PSU operates at at least 80% efficiency, even at full load. There are different tiers of 80 plus ratings: 

| 80 Plus type | 10% | 20% | 50% | 100% |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 80 Plus | ... | 80% | 80% | 80% |
| 80 Plus Bronze | ... | 82% | 85% | 82% |
| 80 Plus Silver | ... | 85% | 88% | 85% |
| 80 Plus Gold | ... | 87% | 92% | 89% |
| 80 Plus Platinum | ... | 90% | 92% | 89% |
| 80 Plus Titanium | 90% | 92% | 94% | 90% |

Most systems support full-sized ATX PSUs, including small form factor (SFF) systems.

### Cooling

Heat sinks are big pieces of metal (such as copper) that draw heat away from devices.

Heat dissipation draws the heat out of the heat sink and dissipates it. Tubes can pull the heat down into fins. From there, the heat dissipates into the air.

Fans are active coolers, and accelerate heat dissipation.

In general, cool air enters the front of the case, and hot air is pushed out the back.

Some fans have an extra pin on the connector allowing users to control fan speed. Generally, we do not configure the actual speed of the fan, but rather set a maximum temperature threshold, past which fans will turn faster.

These configurations can be set in CMOS or in the OS via software tools.

### PSU Troubleshooting

PSUs have built in surge suppressors, which can break down over time. This results in some strange symptoms, including frequent shutdowns. This can be difficult to diagnose, but can be done with PSU testers. Quicker PSU failures are easier to diagnose, because something will explode or catch fire.

If you don't have a PSU tester, you can use a bent paperclip to trick the PSU into turning on by connecting the green power-good wire to any black ground wire. The fan will spin, verifying that the PSU is at least able to power on.

You can further test the PSU by plugging it into a motherboard and using a multimeter to test power output to the various power connectors on the motherboard.

If you notice decreasing voltages, replace the PSU.

### Troubleshooting CPUs, RAM, and Stuff

When assembling a PC, start with the CPU, RAM, and GPU, and do a test boot. If you reach an error that no boot media is detected, those components are all working.

Visually verify that all fans are working and that there are no obstructions.

Improperly installed RAM will produce a repeating beep code.

Be aware that not all CPUs have built-in GPUs, so be sure you are plugging your display into the correct port.

Note that you should always install the GPU before installing the motherboard into the case. They are much harder to install on an installed motherboard.

If you can't figure out why something isn't working, take everything apart and start over. It's likely you missed something very obvious, and it's pretty trivial at this point.

This is why we test so early: it's easier to take small steps and verify functionality so we have less to troubleshoot at each stage.

If there are loud noises, check your fans. If it is coming out of your PSU, unplug the PC before it explodes or catches fire.
