---
layout: post
title: CompTIA A+ Part 14
date: 2020-09-13 00:51:00
last_modified_at: 2020-09-13 00:51:00
---

### Printers

Impact printers use ink ribbons. The print head has pins that impact the paper. The head moves back and forth along the traverse mechanism. The pins push through the ink ribbon and onto the paper.

The ink ribbon runs out eventually. Print heads also need to be replaced sometimes.

Impact printers require tractor feed paper.

Thermal printers use thermally sensitive paper. They use a feed mechanism and heating element. These are primarily used for receipts.

Thermal paper is sensitive to heat, so storage can be an issue.

The heating element picks up dander over time and must be cleaned. Once or twice a year, debris should be sprayed out with compressed air.

By default, a hardwired connection to a printer means only you can use it.

Printers can also be networked. Cloud printing is also an option.

The majority of printers have USB connections. Some printers have serial connections, usually printers for POS systems.

All modern operating system should recognize your printer automatically and install the correct drivers. If needed, drivers can be downloaded manually from the manufacturer's website.

Firmware updates are common on printers.

The manufacturer's site will also usually provide utilities for your printer.

The spooler is the software that queues print jobs.

Some printer have collation and duplex features.

Printers can be shared over the LAN. This is set up in Settings.

You can also "map" printers, just like mapping folders, but this is a legacy feature. Do this via the ```net use``` command, like ```net use lpt:1 \\desktop-1\printer /persistent:yes```.

You need permissions to manage the print spooler.

Network printers are pretty much the same; they either work automatically or you install the drivers from the site.

If you are unable to install a printer, you probably lack permissions. Also make sure you have the right IP, and that the printer exists.

No connectivity could indicate an issue with physical connections, DHCP, or other generic network problems.

Access denied means you don't have permissions.

No image on printer display could mean the printer is not turned on, bad display, or some sort of administrative lock mode.

Paper jams indicate problems with pickup rollers or seperator pads.

Garbled characters on paper usually means a driver issue or a corrupted print job.

Vertical lines on page indicates foreign matter on the optically sensitive roller, replace the toner cart.

Color prints in the wrong print color indicate driver issues, or you ran out of one of the colors.

Printing blank pages means the primary printing mechanism in your printer is likely broken.

Streaks indicate that your inkjets are beginning to clog.

Faded prints usually indicate that you are running out of ink.

Ghost images could mean your scraper in your toner cart is broken. Replace the toner cart.

Toner not fused to paper indicates that the fuser assembly is defective and needs to be replaced.

Creased paper could indicate that one of your pickup rollers is defective. Apply a maintenance kit.

3D printers extrude filament in a 3D shape.

Shapes are made using 3D modeling software, then translated into slices and printed slice by slice.

### Security

Just don't be vulnerable in the first place.

Patch your OS and software/firmware.

Run antimalware (for the exam but not really).

Run a host-based firewall.

Use an IDS/IPS (intrusion detection system/intrusion prevention system). These monitor network traffic heuristically and notify administrators when problems take place and/or disconnect the suspicious host from the network.
