---
layout: post
title: CompTIA A+ Part 10
date: 2020-09-05 23:50:00
last_modified_at: 2020-09-05 23:50:00
---

### Local Area Networking

Each octet in an IP address can range from 0 to 255, giving around 4 billion possible addresses.

Your IP address identifies which LAN you are part of and gives you a unique host ID.

Class C IP addresses have the first three octets set and the last octet free.

Class B IP addresses have the first two octets set.

Class A IP addresses have the first octet set.

Networking between LANs requires adding to the Ethernet frame.

Destination MAC -> Source MAC -> Destination IP -> Source IP -> Data -> Checksum

When a host attempts to send traffic to a host outside of its LAN, the default gateway routes the traffic to the default gateway of the destination LAN.

Each host needs an IP, subnet mask, and default gateway.

In Windows, these are configured in Network and Sharing Center in Control Panel.

Static IP addresses are assigned manually and do not change, but these are uncommon.

Class A addresses can only start with 1-126.

Class B addresses can only start with 128-191.

Class C addresses can only start with 192-223.

Private IP addresses can be Class A, 10.x.x.x, Class B, 172.16.x.x-172.31.x.x, or Class C, 192.168.x.x.

Private IP addresses are only for use in private networks, and cannot be used on the public Internet.

Loopback IP address is always 127.0.0.1 (if you ping the loopback, you are pinging yourself).

IP addresses ran out in the 90s, but NAT (network address translation) enabled us to continue to use IPv4 until IPv6 could be adopted.

Using NAT, the gateway has a public IP, and the LAN "hides" behind it. Internally, the LAN uses private IP addresses.

DHCP (dynamic host configuration protocol) handles the automatic assigning of IP addresses. Hosts query a DHCP server to be assigned an IP (in SOHO settings, the router usually has a DHCP server built in).

APIPA (automatic private IP addressing) is a sort of fallback mechanism which automatically assigns an IP if a DHCP server cannot be reached.

APIPA, by default, always assigns 169.254.x.x. If you have this IP address, you likely have a DHCP issue.

In Windows, you can try to get a new IP from the DHCP server with ipconfig /renew

ipconfig /release disconnects you from the DHCP server, ipconfig /renew reconnects you.

IPv6 addresses have 8 groups of 4 hexadecimal digits each.

IPv6 can be shortened by dropping leading 0s, replacing (only one) group of all 0s with double colon.

Every host has a link local address which starts with fe80:0000:0000:0000, the last half autogenerated.

Every host also has a global unicast address (Internet address). First half of the global unicast address is assigned by the router.

Ports help to keep track of different connections on a host.

Ports number from 0-65535.

Every connection has a source and destination port.

Ports from 0-1023 are well-known ports.

Ports from 1024-49151 are registered ports.

Ports from 49152-65536 are ephemeral ports. Hosts use this as the "return address" when connecting to servers.

| Port Number | Protocol |
| --- | --- |
| 21 | FTP |
| 22 | SSH |
| 23 | TELNET |
| 25 | SMTP |
| 53 | DNS |
| 80 | HTTP |
| 110 | POP3 |
| 161/162 | SNMP |
| 143 | IMAP |
| 443 | HTTPS |
| 3389 | RDP |
| 137-139 | NETBIOS/NETBT |
| 445 | SMB/CIFS |
| 427 | SLP |
| 548 | AFP |
| 67/68 | DHCP |
| 389 | LDAP |
