---
layout: post
title: CompTIA A+ Part 13
date: 2020-09-11 13:00:00
last_modified_at: 2020-09-11 13:00:00
---

### Mobile

Most mobile devices typically connect with either Lightning or USB-C.

Wired connections are usually used for charging, file transfer, and synchronization.

NFC is used for things like tap-to-print and tap-to-pay. Your device must have an NFC chip, and NFC must be enabled in settings.

NFC can also be used to share data, like YouTube videos, to compatible devices.

Bluetooth is used primarily to connect to peripherals, such as speakers and headphones.

Bluetooth peripherals must be paired to the device in Bluetooth settings. Sometimes a PIN is required.

Infrared is a line of sight connection. It is not very prevalent anymore.

802.11 allows mobile devices to connect to WAPs.

USB tethering allows another device such as a laptop to connect to WiFi through the mobile device.

Hotspot makes the mobile device to broadcast an SSID so other devices can connect to WiFi wirelessly.

Airplane mode turns off all wireless communications.

VR (virtual reality) allows you to interact with a virtual environment with a headset and controllers.

Infrared transmitters placed throughout the space help with tracking your location.

AR (augmented reality) superimpose virtual elements on the real world, like Pokemon Go.

Mobile device maintenance is usually very straightforward.

CDMA (code division multiple access) vs GSM (global system for mobile communications): GSM phones use a SIM card. CDMA exists only in North America and parts of South America.

CDMA phones require firmware updates. Types of firmware updates include baseband updates, broadband updates, radio firmware updates.

PRL (preferred roaming list) may need to be updated if you notice a decrease in speeds.

GSM phones usually update OTA (over the air).

IMSI (international mobile subscriber identity) is built into the SIM card.

IMEI (international mobile equipment identity) is built into the device. Dial ```*#06#```.

VPNs work on mobile. Usually you install a client app.

Remote backups are trivial on mobile. Automatic updates go out to the cloud. Make sure it's turned on in settings.

You can install antimalware software on mobile devices. Allegedly iOS devices don't need it because the App Store is so tightly controlled (this is a lie, don't install stupid apps). Android devices are allegedly more risky because the Play Store is a mess, and while this is true I still wouldn't waste system resources on an antimalware app. Android devices can also sideload apps or use alternative stores such as F-Droid.

Host-based firewalls are just as important on mobile devices as on desktops!

Email on mobile is usually very easy. There's a wizard that you just plug your credentials into (usually in Account settings or something similar). You might need to know server and port names for less common email providers.

Please be sure to use the encrypted versions of email protocols.

POP3 encrypted port 995

IMAP encrypted port 993

SMTP encrypted port 465 or 587

These use either SSL or STARTTLS for P2PE (point to point encryption).

S/MIME (secure/multipurpose internet mail extensions) encrypts email attachments: MIME simply attaches by translating files into ASCII code in clear text. Now that emails are P2PE, S/MIME is outdated.

Some servers provide P2PE or even E2EE (end to end encryption).

Synchronization allows you to sync data like contacts between devices.

Synchronize to desktop, automobile, cloud.

Other apps can also sync. For example, bookmark syncing on Firefox. Location data, ebooks, social media, applications.

### Fucking Printers

Laser printers are actually really interesting.

The toner cart has a photosensitive drum in it. A laser hits the drum, and it holds a charge based on how much light hit it.

Exposing: print jobs are stored in memory on the printer. The primary corona charges up (around -400 to -600V). Corona rotates as a laser writes the image onto the photosensitive drum, changing the charge to ~-150V where the laser hits.

Developing: The toner sits at around -300V. The -400V of the unexposed drum repels toner, but the exposed -150V parts attract toner.

Imaging: Paper is fed into the printer by pickup rollers. Separation pads ensure only one sheet is grabbed. Transfer corona puts a charge of ~+150V on the paper. As paper passes by the drum, the toner, which is only loosely attracted to the drum, is strongly attracted to the paper. The fuser assembly uses heat and pressure to melt and fuse the toner to the paper, and an anti-static device removes the charge.

1. Processing
2. Charging
3. Exposing
4. Developing
5. Transferring
6. Fusing
7. Cleaning

Color laser printers use the same process with a little added complexity (CMYK colors).

A transfer belt takes the colors to add to the sheet.

Most of the actual work takes place inside the toner cart, so maintenance mostly means replacing your toner cart.

Laser printers should be cleaned sometimes - read your printer documentation. You may need an anti-static vacuum.

Maintenance kits are available and help ensure longevity. They usually include things like replacement pickup rollers, transfer rollers, etc. Refer to printer documentation for guidelines on how often to apply these.

Laser printers can be calibrated.

Inkjet printers have ink cartridges connected to a jet. The jet fills with ink, is heated, and expels boiling ink. The ink is charged, so metal deflectors can point the ink in different directions.

The jet is mounted on a print head that moves back and forth on a carriage.

Many printers have scanning and fax capabilities built in as well.

When not in use, the head sits in the maintenance area where the jets are plugged to prevent leaks and clogs.

Inkjet printers have a maintenance mode. Maintenance mode cleans heads, calibrates, etc.

Inkjets run through ink fast, so replace the cartridges a ton.
