---
layout: post
title: CompTIA A+ Part 19
date: 2020-09-17 22:08:00
last_modified_at: 2020-09-17 22:08:00
---

### Users, Groups, Permissions

NTFS allows for very granular control of permissions.

Users can be given read only, read & write, or full control permissions to any file or folder.

For easier administration, users can be added to groups, and then permissions are given to the whole group.

Windows comes with the Administrator and Standard User groups.

You can do basic user management in Settings or Control Panel, but you have to go to Local Users and Groups to do the cool stuff.

Guest accounts are useful for unpriveleged access without requiring authentication, like access to a web server.

Power Users are a step beneath Administrators: the only thing they can't do is hijack other users' accounts or data.

Most of the default Groups in Windows are not for use by actual people but for use by software tools.

Let's get more detailed about NTFS permissions.

Full Control enables you to do anything.

Modify lets you read, write, and delete.

Read & Execute means you can read and execute any executables.

List Folder Contents means you can see what is inside.

Read lets you view contents and open any file.

Write lets you write and create new files and folders.

Files and folders have the same permissions levels.

Inheritance is when a subfolder or file inherits permissions from the parent folder.

You can use Deny to stop inheritance and prevent users/groups from having permissions on subfolders/files.

Best practice is not to use Deny. Do better.

Linux and Mac permissions. rwx, 777. 4 read, 2 write, 1 execute. Owner, group, everyone.

File Explorer is a bloated piece of shit, but let's learn it anyway.

Navigation Pane, Main Pane.

Click View to turn panes and toolbars on and off.

Preview Pane, Details Pane.

Different views like Details, Large Icon, Small Icon.

Quick Access: pin shit here.

This PC, Drives.

Cloud Services (OneDrive, Dropbox).

Network.

File Explorer is pretty customizable, dig through the View Options. You can do things like show hidden files, show file extensions, etc.

Network shares, mapping drives, blah blah blah.

Local Security Policy sets local security policies... Enforce strong passwords and lockout policy, etc.
