---
layout: post
title: CompTIA A+ Part 18
date: 2020-09-16 13:47:00
last_modified_at: 2020-09-16 13:47:00
---

### Installing an OS

lol

Making bootable media, booting from it, drivers, updates, active hours, backups and recovery, installing applications, restore points, Windows Defender, file history.

### Advanced Windows

Registry is Windows' nonsense method for storing configurations.

Why not use text configs like Linux? Because Windows hates you.

Registry is a bloated binary format that has to be edited with regedit.exe.

```HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT``` will probably be messed with least. It includes file associations and stuff.

```HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE``` defines a lot of local settings like wallpaper, drivers, hardware configuration, software configurations, etc.

```HKEY_CURRENT_CONFIG``` defines what hardware and software is being used right now; this is a subset of ```HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE```.

```HKEY_LOCAL_USER``` defines local users' keyboard layouts and other local user settings.

```HKEY_CURRENT_USER``` is a subset of ```HKEY_LOCAL_USER``` and defines the currently logged in user's settings.

An example: ```HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run``` defines autostart programs.

Applications and services are processes. You can view running processes in Task Manager.

Each process has a PID (process ID).

Services run in the background and handle things like networking. You can manage services with Services.

Most cool settings are in Control Panel, make sure you turn on Icon display mode because the default view hides things.

Control Panel includes things like Device Manager, Bitlocker, Administrative Tools.

Settings is absorbing some of the more basic configurations like Sound, Keyboard, etc. but some of these will actually bring up Control Panel applets if you try to do something more advanced.

```Ctrl+Shift+Esc``` is the superior way to open Task Manager, and this hotkey is on the exam.

Because Windows 7 Task Manager was somewhat limited, they made Resource Monitor where you can get a more detailed view of system resource usage, PIDs, etc.

Windows 10 Task Manager is much better, so you don't need Resource Monitor.

msinfo32, aka System Information, gives lots of information about the PC, such as BIOS version, processor model, amount of RAM, etc etc.

msconfig, aka System Configuration, lets you fiddle with startup options.

System displays and configures basic Windows settings. You can change hostname, Domain/Workgroup, Product ID, as well as access System Protection, Device Manager, Remote Settings.

mmc (Microsoft management console) is a centralized place where you can snap in all sorts of tools from all over Windows. You can customize it so it shows all the tools you need.

Performance Monitor is a customizable real-time graph of resource usage. It includes all sorts of counters for granular control. It can also log with Data Collector Sets.

Event Viewer is where you view system logs. Local Security Policy is where you find and set audit policy for Event Viewer (as well as local security policies).

ODBC (open database connectivity) is based on SQL (structured query language) and lets you connect to databases.

COM (component object model) lets you share databases, files, etc. Useful for collaborative development/management. You use Component Services for this.
