---
layout: post
title: CompTIA A+ Part 22
date: 2020-09-20 22:56:00
last_modified_at: 2020-09-20 22:56:00
---

### LANs

Workgroups are built on top of a set of legacy protocols called NetBIOS/NetBEUI.

NetBIOS was succeeded by NetBT (NetBIOS over TCP/IP).

CIFS (common internet file system)

SMB (server message block), aka samba

Workgroups kinda suck, so we made Active Directory.

You need a dedicated Domain Controller running Windows Server.

You connect to a Domain with a Domain Account, rather than Local Accounts, although the local account still exists.

Domains let you get around creating a billion local accounts for shares.

Security policies and stuff can propagate throughout Domains. You can also propagate other stuff like scripts and things.

Domains give you access to Organizational Units, which are like Groups but better.

PCs on the Domain need a domain name, usually for LANs you use example.local because .local is not a valid TLD. So the user would be user@example.local.

Users are added to Domains by Domain Administrators.

Managing Users and Groups is pretty similar to local users and groups but with some additional features.

Windows can share files with Linux and Mac using samba, an smb emulation tool.

Let's talk about the ```net``` command.

```net view``` shows all PCs on network.

```net view PC-name``` shows shares on system.

```net share shareit=c:\stuff``` creates a share of c:\stuff with the share name shareit.

```net share``` shows all available shares.

```net use v: \\PC-name\shareit``` maps PC-name\shareit to the v: drive.

```net user``` shows users on the system.

```net user username password /add``` adds a user with username and password.

```net user username /delete``` deletes user.

Firewalls filter traffic based on rules.

ACLs (access control lists) control access. Use the principle of least privilege.

Blacklists are lists of things you can't access.

Whitelists block access to everything except things on the whitelist.

Stateless firewalls just follow the rules. Stateful firewalls respond to the state of a situation and adapt intelligently.

Windows Firewall...

Port forwarding...

Wireless encryption...

Telnet and SSH...

RDP...

Laptop power management...

Mobile security...

Security shit...

Operational procedures...

I don't really think we need to go over the rest of this. Let's just call it a day.
