---
layout: post
title: CompTIA A+ Part 2
date: 2020-08-30 00:00:00
last_modified_at: 2020-08-30 00:00:00
---

### Internal Hardware

Power supply unit (PSU)

Video card or graphics processing unit (GPU)

Motherboard - primary device that connects all components together. Includes power connections for some components, and data connections for all components.

RAM/memory stick

Central processing unit (CPU)

CPU fan, heatsink, liquid cooling

Mass storage (M.2, 2.5" SSD, 3.5" HDD, etc)

Storage expansion bays provide space for additional drives.

Expansion slots (PCI, PCIe)

Chipset - defines motherboard features.

### Hardware Functions

CPUs run computations.

Mass storage devices (solid state drives, hard disk drives) store static data such as installed programs, documents.

Random access memory (RAM) dynamically stores data. Mass storage is too slow to keep up with the CPU's computation speed. RAM is much faster, so "running" programs are temporarily moved to RAM. RAM is very expensive compared to mass storage, and is volatile: RAM is "emptied" when powered off.

All computers, no matter how simple, need a CPU, RAM, and mass storage, as well as some software to control them (operating system).

### CPU Basics

CPUs handle billions of calculations per second.

CPUs communicate in binary by changing the voltage of wires. Machine language defines the meanings of patterns of 1s (voltage on) and 0s (voltage off).

The CPU contains registers to internally store some data.

The CPU has a clock wire that lets it "keep time".

CPUs can handle a number of commands at once through pipelines.

### CPU Speeds and Cores

1 Hz is 1 cycle per second.

1 GHz is 1 billion cycles per second.

Modern CPU speeds are measured in GHz. The advertized clock speed is the CPU's *maximum* speed.

The two major CPU manufacturers are Intel and AMD. They use the same machine language, but differ in different ways.

CPU clock is driven by the oscillation of a quartz crystal.

Motherboards typically run at a maximum of around 400 MHz, but CPUs are much faster. This is achieved through clock multiplying, which takes places within the CPU itself.

You can view the multiplier with software like [CPU-Z](https://www.cpuid.com/softwares/cpu-z.html), as well as other details about the CPU.

Overclocking is done by enthusiasts on special motherboards and "pushes" the clock multiplier up. This can result in an unstable system.

Multiple cores also allow faster computations. Multiple pipelines allow CPUs to handle more simultaneous computations. Each core acts like a discrete CPU.

Modern pipelines can also handle multiple threads, which let one pipeline act like multiple (hyperthreading).

### CPU Cache

Mass storage is slower than RAM, so running programs are moved to RAM. Likewise, RAM is slower than the CPU, so there is a small amount of memory on the CPU called SRAM, which is extremely fast and extremely expensive.

The CPU's prefetch can pull code and pass it to the cache to hold.

Cache design is one of the major differences between Intel and AMD CPUs.

If the cache doesn't have the next line of code the CPU needs, pipeline stall occurs.

Most modern CPUs come with 3 caches.

Level 1 cache runs at the same multiplied speed as the CPU.

Level 2 cache runs at around half of the multiplied speed.

Level 3 cache runs at around the base motherboard speed (still faster than RAM).

Each level of cache is bigger but slower than the last.

Set association defines the efficiency of the cache at handing off data (but is beyond the scope of the A+).

AMD tends towards larger caches, while Intel tends towards smaller but smarter caches.

### CPU Sockets

The CPU socket defines the physical form of the CPU and the corresponding connection on the motherboard.

Microarchitecture defines the circuit diagram of the CPU.

As CPU features evolve, new microarchitectures must be developed to accomodate them.

Microarchitectures have family names (Haswell, Coffee Lake, etc.) Different processors within the same family use the same microarchitecture.

Intel microarchitectures:
- Nehalem (1st Gen)
- Sandy Bridge (2nd Gen)
- Ivy Bridge (3rd Gen)
- Haswell (4th Gen)
- Broadwell (5th Gen)
- Skylake (6th Gen)
- Kaby Lake (7th Gen)
- Coffee Lake (8th Gen)

Generally, it's a better idea to pay attention to the family name (microarchitecture) than the model (i3, i5, i7, i9) and clock speed. An 8th Gen i3 is much better than a 3rd Gen i9!

Intel CPU naming convention: i7[model]-5[generation]820[SKU]K[specific features]

So the above CPU is a 5th Gen i7. Research the SKU to find out what features it has.

CPUs either have a pin grid array (PGA) or landed grid array (LGA).

Intel CPUs have an LGA. AMD CPUs have a PGA.

Some sockets you are likely to see on the exam include:
- LGA 1151: mainstream socket, midrange to enthusiast
- LGA 2066: enthusiast, high end socket
- AM4: midrange to enthusiast
- TR4: enthusiast, high end

### CPU installation

CPUs have zero-insertion-force (ZIF) sockets. They require **no** force to install. They simply "drop in".

Motherboards must be compatible with CPUs, so be sure to check compatibility before purchasing. The motherboard documentation will specify the CPU socket, maximum clock speed, etc.

Be sure to use an anti-static wristband and be careful not to touch the pins on the CPU or motherboard.

The CPU has an orientation notch: one of the corners looks different from the others. Line the orientation notch with the orientation notch on the motherboard. CPUs only drop in one way. Try to get it right the first time to avoid damaging pins.

Most CPUs come with an OEM (original equipment manufacturing) fan. These guarantee sufficient cooling under normal operating conditions. The OEM fan comes with thermal paste already applied to the heat sink.

There is no standard for CPU fans. Refer to your documentation for installation instructions. You might have to be somewhat forceful with the fan. A well-mounted fan should be very tight.

Visually inspect at every stage to make sure that things are level and properly installed.

The OEM fan requires power, so don't forget to plug it in (4-pin connector). Optionally, plug in your RGB.

### Advanced Cooling

Overclocking may increase temperatures beyond the capabilities of your OEM fan.

Fans also create noise.

Third party fans can either be more powerful, or larger (and therefore can turn slower, generating less noise).

Another solution is liquid cooling: a cooling solution (generally water with some alcohol) runs through the CPU drawing heat away. The coolant then goes to a radiator to cool before returning to the CPU. The radiator is cooled by fans.

Although liquid cooling is quieter, there are more points of failure (pump, hoses, etc.), and cheaper liquid cooling systems are less efficient than fans. On the other hand, fans can be heavy, and large fans can bend or warp the motherboard.
