---
layout: post
title: CompTIA A+ Part 16
date: 2020-09-15 12:47:00
last_modified_at: 2020-09-15 12:47:00
---

### CPU Architecture

Between RAM and CPU is a MCC (memory controller chip). MCC has some wires that connect to the external data bus. The MCC grabs Bytes off RAM to send to CPU.

Address bus is the direct connection between MCC and CPU, used solely for CPU to tell MCC what it needs grabbed from RAM.

32-bit means a 32-bit address bus, so you can address 2<sup>36</sup> different bits on the RAM. That's why 32-bit caps out around 4GB RAM.

64-bit CPUs are generally backward compatible with 32-bit software, but 32-bit OS can't run 64-bit software.

### RAM

No such thing as too much RAM.

Out of memory errors occur when RAM fills up.

This is where virtual memory comes in (swap or paging files).

Virtual memory is a file or disk partition that allows RAM to temporarily offload data. It runs at disk speed so is very slow and is not an ideal solution.

Windows 10 by default automatically manages the paging file size for all drives.

Rule of thumb for swap size with hibernate is RAMx2, or RAMx1.5 past around 8GB RAM.

### PSU

PSUs are sensitive, don't cheap out on them and be sure to protect them properly.

Spikes and sags are variations in the amount of voltage coming in from the wall socket.

Sags are also called brownouts.

Sags are not particularly dangerous, but spikes can destroy your equipment.

Spikes are also called surges.

Use a surge suppressor/protector to absorb the excess voltage from spikes.

Cheaper surge protectors are single-use.

Surge protectors are available to protect Ethernet, landline, and USB as well.

UPS (uninterruptible power supply) protects you from surges as well as sags. They have a battery built in to provide power in case of an outage.
