---
layout: post
title: CompTIA A+ Part 11
date: 2020-09-08 01:24:00
last_modified_at: 2020-09-08 01:24:00
---

### LANs

TCP uses handhsakes.

UDP is connection-less. There are no handshakes, and delivery is best effort.

ICMP is for single packets only. Pings use this.

Protocol data unit (PDU) is the frame or packet that is used for the protocol in question, such as Ethernet frame, IP packet, TCP segment/UDP datagram.

DNS (domain name system) takes FQDNs (fully qualified domain names) and translates them into servers' IP addresses.

Before DNS, names were resolved by the hosts file.

Windows Workspaces and Domains. Workspaces are for basic LANs, Domains require a Windows Server.

Routers have routing tables built in that determine where to send IP packets based on the destination IP.

Most SOHO routers have other stuff built into them, like DHCP servers, switches, firewalls, WAPs.

Routers can be configured via the console port (serial).

Routers can also be configured by accessing 192.168.0.1 (default gateway IP) and typing in the default username and password. Remember to change the username and password for security.

Be familiar with configuring router settings, like changing your gateway's IP, setting static IPs, firewall rules, DNS server, port forwarding, DHCP reservation, etc.

Also "advanced" router configurations such as quality of service, link layer discovery protocol (LLDP), universal plug n play, simple network management protocol (SNMP).

A VLAN (virtual LAN) splits a LAN into multiple, segregated virtual LANs.

Limited connectivity is likely a DHCP issue. Check for APIPA addresses. Be on the lookout for incorrect gateways: this indicates a rogue DHCP server.

Intermittent connectivity could be an issue with physical cabling, possibly EM interference.

Unavailable resources are likely as simple as an issue with NTFS permissions.

Slow transfer speeds could indicate an overtaxed network card: check your running processes and QoS settings.

### Wireless Networking

802.11 is the primary wireless networking standard.

A WAP (wireless access point) provides a bridge between an Ethernet network and wireless network. Most SOHO routers have WAPs built in, but enterprise WAPs are just WAPs.

WAPs broadcast an SSID (service set identifier) that hosts connect to.

In ad hoc mode, there is no SSID. NICs connect directly to another host.

Wireless radio signals are transmitted by antennas.

Omni-directional antennas transmit in all directions. Propagation can be a little weak.

Dipole antennas contain two omni-directional antennas that point in opposite directions. The radiation pattern is flatter and stronger, so you are not transmitting into the ground or sky.

Patch antennas transmit half a sphere.

Highly directional antennas transmit very strong signals in a narrow area. The radiation signal is football shaped and can achieve rather long distances.

802.11 uses ISM (industrial, scientific, and medical) radio bands. Wireless networking occurs at the 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz frequencies.

The 2.4GBz band actually ranges from 2.412-2.4884GHz. This allows different WAPs to use slightly different frequencies to avoid interference (channels). 2.4GHz band has 14 channels (in Japan), 13 (in Europe), 11 (in the United States).

The 5Gz band ranges from 5.150-5.875Ghz. The channels are rather more complicated. Channel numbers skip around and don't really make much sense, but they work very well.

| Standard | Speed | Bands |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 802.11a | 54Mbps | 5GHz |
| 802.11b | 11Mbps | 2.4GHz |
| 802.11g | 54Mbps | 2.4GHz |
| 802.11n | 100Mbps | 2.4 or 5GHz |

802.11n introduced MIMO (multiple in/multiple out), which allows a single WAP to use multiple antennas to modify its radiation pattern to better serve stationary devices.

802.11ac introduced multi-user MIMO.
