---
layout: post
title: CompTIA A+ Part 12
date: 2020-09-08 22:10:00
last_modified_at: 2020-09-08 22:10:00
---

### Wireless Networking

Before setting up a wireless network, you do a WiFi survey.

You can use a survey tool to see what networks already exist, what bands they are using, and signal strength at different locations.

Best practice is to use channels 1, 6, or 11 on the 2.4GHz band. 1, 6, and 11 do not overlap at all.

You can disable SSID broadcasting to improve privacy. This does not actually stop people from trying to find your SSID, but the average user will not see it.

A wireless mesh network (WMN) is ad hoc mode between WAPs. All of the configured WAPs broadcast the same SSID and connect to the same network, so you can roam without losing connectivity.

A WMN typically will use a robust 3rd party encryption solution in favor of WEP/WPA.

Radio frequency identification (RFID) is a sticker with a radio that stores a few hundred bits of data. They can be read with special readers are tend to be used in warehouses.

Near field communication (NFC) uses short-range radio to communicate between devices. This is an implementation of RFID, and is used in all sorts of places (tap to pay, tap to print, tap to whatever).

Bluetooth is similar to 802.11, but is designed only to connect two devices in a PAN (personal area network).

| Bluetooth Class | Power | Range |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Class 1 | 100mW | 100m |
| Class 2 | 2.5mW | 10m |
| Class 3 | 1mW | 1m |

When troubleshooting WiFi issues, it is helpful to have a WiFi analyzer. You can get these as apps.

No connectivity errors might be a change in the network that your local profile does not know about.

Low RF signal might indicate that you are too far away from the WAP, or you may have an issue with your antennas. Remember that most SOHO routers have dipole antennas, and should be pointing straight up.

If the SSID is not being broadcast, you need to manually set up the profile.

Limited connectivity could indicate physical interference.

Intermittent connectivity could also indicate physical intereference, or an overloaded network (buy more WAPs, use QoS).

### Internet

To put things simply, LANs are connected by a switch, WANs are connected by routers.

A big WAN that covers a city or so is a MAN (metropolitan network).

The Internet is a massive worldwide WAN.

A PAN is made up of direct point-to-point connections (Bluetooth).

Peering agreements between competing ISPs allow the Internet to function.

Network operation centers (NOCs) are built by third parties and are where ISPs set up routers for traffic to travel between different ISPs.

Dial-up uses POTS (plain old telephone service) or PSTN (public switched telephone network).

Dial-up uses a modem which modulates and demodulates to signal from the telephone line.

ISDN (integrated services digital) used terminal adapters instead of modems, and was the first step into digital Internet (POTS was analog). This allowed us to use the Internet and phones at the same time.

ISDN is still a huge industry for some reason. Seems to be big among voice actors.

Broadband connections are the typical way to connect to the Internet these days.

Digital subscriber line (DSL) used telephone lines to provide digital service.

DSL modems are not actually modems, they are terminal adapters. But the terminology stuck.

Asymmetric DSL (ADSL) had slower upload speeds than download speeds. Symmetric DSL (SDSL) had the same up and download speeds.

Typical DSL speeds were 768Kbps-3Mbps up, 1.5-7Mbps down.

On many DSL connections, you had to use point-to-point over ethernet (PPPoE) instead of DHCP. This handled authentication. Requiring PPPoE was essentially a money-grab to try to charge per host, but most routers bypass this anyway.

Cable uses DOCSIS (data over cable service interface specification). It is similar to Ethernet, but also allows for cable television.

Typical cable speeds were 1.5Mbps up, 10Mbps down, but today have reached 50Mbps up, 100+Mbps down.

Satellite has high latency but is good for people in rural areas where other options are not available.

Typical satellite speeds are 3Mbps up, 25 Mbps down.

Generally we access the Internet through applications such as web browsers. Different applications use different application protocols.

Accessing a website uses outbound port 80 (HTTP). Your router must allow outbound port 80. The server is listening on port 80, and returns traffic to the original source port.

FTP (file transfer protocol) uses port 21 and is used to, uh, transfer files. FTP requires an FTP client and FTP server. All modern web browsers are FTP clients.

Email clients exist, but webmail clients are predominant today.

Email protocols include SMTP (simple mail transfer protocol) on port 25, POP (post office protocol) on port 110, and IMAP (Internet message access protocol) on port 143.

SMTP is the protocol for mail delivery.

POP copies emails from server to client.

IMAP mirrors emails from server to client.

The latest versions are POP3 and IMAP4.

Most mail today uses secure versions of these protocols with different port numbers, but know these unsecure ones for the exam for some reason.

A proxy server is a server on the LAN that Internet traffic is routed through.

Proxies can filter traffic, block sites, prevent you from sharing PII, filter out unwanted incoming media, etc.

A VPN (virtual private network) is an encrypted tunnel connecting remote hosts to a LAN. This requires a VPN client on the remote host, and a router or dedicated box with VPN endpoint software.

Attempting to access web content from a VPN results in split tunneling: the traffic first travels through the tunnel to your LAN, goes back out to the Internet, back to your LAN, and then through the tunnel again to the client.

The Internet of Things (IoT) is the name for all of the Internet-enabled devices we have now, including fridges, lights, doorbells, etc.

IoT uses 802.11, zigbee (designed for home automation, 2.4GHz band, low bandwidth), and Z-Wave (900MHz band).

### Virtualization

Virtualization lets you create virtual machines within another physical machine.

For max performance, enable virtualization in BIOS.

Virtualization requires a hypervisor to host the VM.

Hypervisors are either Type 1 (baremetal) or Type 2 (software). Type 1 hypervisors are installed directly on the hardware. Type 2 hypervisors are software installed within a pre-existing OS.

VMs are stored as files when turned off.

When you create a VM you allocate hardware resources (storage, memory, CPU) to it.

Benefits of virtualization include: 

- Smaller footprint (multiple VMs on one machine rather than multiple discrete machines)
- Security and recovery (restore from backup file)
- Rapid elasticity (make copies of the VM to serve other geographic markets)
- On-demand scalability (meet seasonal demand)
- Resource pooling

IaaS (infrastructure as a service) provides infrastructure (essentially bare metal) as a cloud service.

PaaS (platform as a service) provides a ready platform, often used by code developers. The infrastructure part is taken care of.

SaaS (software as a service) should be a familiar concept: G Suite, Office 365, etc.

Private clouds are private clouds for use within an organization.

Public clouds are for public use, although usually behind a paywall.

Hybrid clouds are part private, part public. Perhaps an org had a cloud bigger than they needed, so they split it up and make some money off the excess.

A community cloud is when multiple orgs pitch in to build a cloud they share.

### Laptops

Laptops have all the problems desktops have and then some.

Laptops have function keys that control things like backlight, volume, airplane mode, gaming mode, touchpad on/off.

Modern laptops generally come with Bluetooth.

Most laptops also have GPS built in.

Anti-theft devices like laptop locks/cable locks are available.

Docking stations provide desktop-like functionality: peripherals connect to the docking station, and the laptop drops onto the docking station port.

Docking stations are proprietary. Port replicas also exist, but they are essentially just USB hubs.

Charging circuits and the actual AC adapter connector are very fragile and very cheap to replace. Check these before buying a whole new battery or tossing the laptop.

Some older laptops have removable CPUs, but most newer ones do not.

Laptop displays are typically more difficult to disassemble than standalone displays as they require the use of heat guns.

### Mobile

Sealed units running specific OSes.

Primarily wireless, except for charging. Most accessories are wireless.

Android and iOS are the frontrunners of mobile OSes.

Most mobile devices come with NFC, GPS, accelerometers, touch screens, etc.

Many people like to use cases to help protect their mobile devices.

Some mobile devices have wireless charging.

Screen protectors help protect from scratches, but generally don't prevent cracks from drops.

Tablets get a lot of interesting usage these days in enterprise environments. THey are common as POS systems.

Wearables such as smart watches and fitness trackers are common today. They generally include heart rate monitors and accelerometers, and sync to your smartphone via Bluetooth.

eReaders use special technology to display text that use little power and can be read in various light conditions.

GPSs store maps in memory and have GPS chips built in.

Credit card readers can connect via Bluetooth or via the 3.5mm headphone jack.

Some mobile devices allow expandable storage through (micro)SD cards. Not Apple devices, though.
