---
layout: post
title: CompTIA A+ Part 8
date: 2020-09-03 02:29:00
last_modified_at: 2020-09-02 02:29:00
---

### Display

If you disassemble an LCD monitor, the first layer is the LCD screen which is mostly opague, along with the wires that provide electricity and the controller chips that control them.

Behind the LCD screen is a large white surface, the reflector, surrounded by CCFL tubes. The reflector helps to create an even distribution of light, so you don't have bright and dark spots.

Because CCFLs use AC power, LCDs need inverters to convert DC power from the PC back into AC power. LED LCD monitors do not need inverters.

Modern graphics cards have their own processors that keep track of what pixels are displaying what.

GPUs also have their own RAM chips to store the current display.

In addition to discrete Nvidia and AMD GPUs, many Intel processors also have Intel Integrated graphics. (Some AMD CPUs also have integrated graphics, called APUs).

VGA (video graphics array) is a legacy graphics connector with 15 pins on three rows. VGA was analog.

DVI (digital video interface) was the first major digital connector. Because analog monitors were still popular, some DVI connectors are compatible with analog (the port will have a +). DVI-I handled both digital and analog, while DVI-D was digital only.

DVI was either single-link or dual-link. Dual-link DVI could handle larger resolutions.

DRM ruins everything, so HDMI (high-definition multimedia interface) exists. HDMI can transport both video and sound, and enforces DRM.

There is a smaller mini-HDMI connector as well.

DisplayPort is the non-shitty HDMI alternative. DP also has a mini-DP connector.

Most projectors use either DLP or LCD.

Projectors generally use large light bulbs or LEDs. Lumens are an important consideration when purchasing a projector bulb. In ideal conditions, 1000 lumens should be enough, but in brighter conditions you want 2500 or more.

Projector bulbs do go out and can be expensive, but LEDs tend to last forever.

Projectors have a minimum and maximum throw distance. Throw can sometimes be adjusted with lenses.

Pincushion is when the projection bows outward or inward on the edges.

Keystone is when the projection is shaped like a keystone.

Skew is when the projection is diagonal.
