---
layout: post
title: CompTIA A+ Part 3
date: 2020-08-30 21:03:00
last_modified_at: 2020-08-30 21:03:00
---

### RAM

SDRAM (synchronous dynamic random-access memory) is a legacy form of RAM that synchronized to the system crystal. 168 pins. Only common form of RAM with two notches. SDRAM runs at the same speed as the motherboard.

DDR SDRAM (double data-rate SDRAM) doubled the data rate of SDRAM. DDR speeds are measured in PC ratings. 184 pins.

| Clock Speed | DDR Speed | PC Speed Rating |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 100 MHz | DDR-200 | PC-1600 |
| 133 MHz | DDR-266 | PC-2100 |
| ... | ... | ... |
| 275 MHz | DDR-550 | PC-4400 |
| 300 MHz | DDR-600 | PC-4800 |

Motherboard clock speed x 2 = DDR Rating

DDR Rating x 8 = PC Rating

DDR2. 240 pins. Note that each generation of DDR RAM has the notch in a slightly different spot to avoid users installing the wrong type of RAM in their motherboard. DDR2 speed ratings are double DDR speed ratings.

| Clock Speed | I/O Speed | DDR2 Speed | PC Speed |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 100 MHz | 200 MHz | DDR2-400 | PC2-3200 |
| 133 MHz | 266 MHz | DDR2-533 | PC2-4200 |
| 166 MHz | 333 MHz | DDR2-667 | PC2-5300 |
| 200 MHz | 400 MHz | DDR2-800 | PC2-6400 |
| 266 MHz | 533 MHz | DDR2-1066 | PC2-8500 |

DDR3 also has 240 pins, with slightly different notch placement.

| Clock Speed | I/O Speed | DDR3 Speed | PC Speed |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 100 MHz | 400 MHz | DDR3-800 | PC3-6400 |
| 133 MHz | 533 MHz | DDR3-1066 | PC3-8500 |
| ... | ... | ... | ... |
| 266 MHz | 1066 MHz | DDR3-2133 | PC3-17000 |
| 300 MHz | 1200 MHz | DDR3-2400 | PC3-19200 |

DDR4 has 288 pins. Rather than talking about I/O speeds, for DDR4 we talk about bandwidth in MT/s (megatransfers per second).

| Clock Speed | Bandwidth | DDR4 Speed | PC Rating |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 200 MHz | 1600 MT/s | DDR4-1600 | PC4-12800 |
| 266 MHz | 2133 MT/s | DDR4-2133 | PC4-17000 |
| 300 MHz | 2400 MT/s | DDR4-2400 | PC4-19200 |
| 400 MHz | 3200 MT/s | DDR4-3200 | PC4-25600 |

Some RAM have chips only on one side (single-sided RAM), but double-sided RAM is also very common. Be sure to check motherboard documentation for compatibility. Double-sided RAM allows us to fit more RAM (capacity) on one stick.

Because RAM is square, capacity increases are always in multiples of 4. That's why you see sizes jump from 1 GB to 4 GB to 16 GB, etc. When you see sizes double, they are using double-sided RAM to double capacities (1 GB to 2 GB to 4 GB).

Motherboards typically have multiple RAM slots. A pair of RAM slots forms a channel. RAM sticks are typically sold in pairs, so be sure to refer to your motherboard documentation to ensure that you are installing like sticks into the same channel.

Modern motherboards usually use dual-channel memory and require 2 like sticks to be installed into the channel.

It is not recommended to use RAM sticks of different speeds, as it may cause issues in many motherboards. But you can use sticks of a different capacity in another channel without issue.

RAM sticks typically have 8 chips per side (that's why capacities are measured in Bytes!). However, some RAM sticks have an extra chip. This is called parity, or ECC (error correction code), RAM. RAM is typically very sturdy, but in some scenarios it is essential to ensure proper functionality. The extra ECC chip allows RAM to keep functioning even if another chip malfunctions.

Parity can compensate for 1 bad RAM chip, while ECC can compensate for 2.

ECC is expensive and requires a special motherboard. It is usually only seen in servers.

SO-DIMMs (small-outline dual in-line memory module) are RAM sticks with a smaller form factor for devices like laptops where real estate is limited. Despite being smaller, they don't lack any of the features of full-sized RAM! DDR4 SO-DIMMs have 260 pins, DDR3 use 204 pins. DDR and DDR2 SO-DIMMs can vary in number of pins.

All RAM sticks have an SPD (serial presence detect) chip which allows your system to query the RAM stick to find out what kind of RAM it is (capacity, speed, manufacturer, etc). This requires software; CPU-Z works.

On a new system, if some RAM doesn't appear, you may have installed one stick incorrectly or installed it into the wrong channel.

### BIOS

Operating systems provide device drivers that allow the OS to communicate with hardware devices, but there needs to be a way for devices to communicate before the operating system boots up. This communication is provided by the basic input/output services (BIOS).

BIOS is firmware, which means it is built into hardware.

Some motherboards have two BIOS chips, one as a backup.

BIOS includes the power-on self-test (more on that later).

BIOS also includes its own settings, often called CMOS (complimentary metal-oxide semiconductor).

### POST

Every CPU has a power-good wire, which is what starts up the CPU when enough voltage is supplied. Once the CPU starts up, it communicates with the BIOS to initiate the POST.

The POST runs through a series of internal diagnostics to verify full functionality before the PC boots up.

Some motherboards have a speaker built in so the POST can communicate with the user via beep codes, since part of the POST runs before the video card is started.

You can purchase POST cards which can display POST error codes in hexadecimal two-digit form. Some enthusiast-level motherboards have a display built in.

There is no standard for POST codes, so refer to your motherboard documentation.


### CMOS

CMOS, or system setup, allows you to store some BIOS settings. Includes settings such as boot order, administrator password, overclocking, RAID, virtualization, etc.

### BIOS Again

Modern BIOS chips use single-flash read-only memory, which means the BIOS can be flashed (reinstalled or updated).

Many devices require precise synchronization, which is achieved using the BIOS RTC (real-time clock). When the PC is powered off, the RTC can pull a small amount of power from the PSU to keep it online. When the PC is unplugged, the RTC draws power from the CMOS battery (CR2032).

The CMOS settings also rely on the CMOS battery. A dead or removed CMOS battery will clear your CMOS settings to factory defaults.

Please be sure that your power will not be interrupted during a BIOS flash (use a UPS). A power outage during a BIOS flash could brick your system. Since this operation is risky, it is recommended not to attempt a BIOS flash unless you need to (for example, you have purchased a newer CPU which is compatible, but requires an updated version of BIOS).

### Form Factors

Most PC components conform to form factor specifications. These define the physical dimensions of hardware components.

The I/O area (where you plug in USB drives and headphones, etc.) are generally the same size across form factors.

The following form factors will appear on the exam:
- ATX
- MicroATX
- Mini-ITX
- ITX

ATX is the biggest and most common form factor. An ATX motherboard is 12"x9.6".

MicroATX is only slightly smaller than ATX. MicroATX motherboards are 9.6" square.

Mini-ITX is designed for small, self-contained systems such as POSs and home theaters. It is the smallest common form factor.

ITX is a larger version of Mini-ITX, but is very uncommon.

In addition to defining the dimensions of motherboards, form factors define the dimensions of other components as well. For example, an ATX power supply can be installed into any ATX PC as they are all the same size.

Every motherboard comes with its own I/O shield, because different motherboards have different connections, but the size of the shield is consistent within the form factor.

### Chipsets

Older motherboards had a number of discrete chips, each with a specialized function. Over time, we developed chipsets, which consolidate these functions.

Chipsets consisted of two chips, the Northbridge and Southbridge. The Northbridge traditionally handled faster interfaces, such as the CPU, while the Southbridge traditionally controlled slower interfaces.

Modern motherboards typically only consist of a Southbridge, as modern CPUs have taken over the functions of the Northbridge.

The chipset is what determines the motherboard's capabilities, and is usually advertised on the motherboard's box.

Any CPU might have a number of compatible chipsets. For example, the Intel Core i7-8086K is compatible with the Intel B360, HM370, Q370, and Z370 chipsets, each with their own capabilities, such as different numbers of PCIe lanes, number of supported USB ports, number of SATA ports, etc.

### PCIe

Motherboards have expansion slots.

Back in the day, these expansion slots were PCI, which were 32-bit-wide parallel connectors. But it turns out, transmitting data in parallel creates latency (not all of the bits arrive at the same time, and time is wasted verifying data was transmitted correctly) so we have switched to PCIe, which is a serial connector.

PCIe also recognizes that it can sometimes be beneficial to transmit across more than one wire at a time, so PCIe slots can have different numbers of lanes, ranging from single-lane (x1) to 4-lane (x4) to 16-lane (x16) slots.

You can plug smaller PCIe cards into larger PCIe slots. 16x slots are generally only used for things like GPUs which require massive amounts of bandwidth.
