---
layout: post
title: CompTIA A+ Part 17
date: 2020-09-15 23:53:00
last_modified_at: 2020-09-15 23:53:00
---

### Mass Storage

Mass storage devices must be formatted, or converted from a purely physical device into a logical device.

Partitioning divides the drive up into discrete logical volumes.

The MBR (master boot record) is the oldest form of partitioning. It defines partitions and tells the PC where the OS is installed.

The MBR is stored at LBA0 and is broken up into 5 distinct pieces: the boot loader, and the partition table (up to 4 partitions). The boot loader's job was to point to one of the active partitions.

MBR was designed with a max size of 2TB per partition.

Because of the 4 partition limit, Windows can create Logical Partitions within the Primary Partitions.

GPT (guid partition table) uses the concept of GUIDs (global unique identifier), a 128-bit unique value defining your particular partitioning system.

GPT supports up to 128 partitions/drive, no Logical Partitions needed. Each partition can be up to 18.8 million TB.

Under GPT, LBA0 includes a protective MBR which ensures backward compatibility with systems only capable of MBR (this backward compatibility really just puts up a warning preventing the drive from being erased; MBR cannot access GPT LBA partitions).

LBA1 contains the primary GPT header, serving a similar function to the MBR LBA0.

Somewhere else on the drive is a secondary GPT header, which is a copy of the primary GPT header which can take over for and rebuild LBA1.

Partitions must be formatted before they can be used by the OS. Formatting tells the partition what file system to use.

FAT (file allocation table) file systems keep a file allocation table that keeps references to where the next bit of data in a file is. If the next bit is the next block, the reference is just zeroes; otherwise, the reference is the address of the next block. If a block is bad, a special reference designates it to be skipped. When the file ends, the reference is an end of file line.

CompTIA wants you to know the following file systems:

FAT32: legacy Windows fs, up to 8TiB volumes, each file up to 4GiB. Generally used on very small HDDs or USB drives.

NTFS (new technology file system): current Windows fs. Up to 16EiB volumes, 256TiB files. FAT replaced by MFT (master file table), located in middle of volume. Built-in permissions, compression, encryption. Can also be used on Linux/Mac (why would you though?). Extra data structures make it bloated, so it is not useful on smaller drives.

ExFAT, same sizes as NTFS but less bloated.

CDFS (compact disc file system): designed for optical discs, files up to 4GiB.

ext3 and ext4: 32TiB volumes, 2GiB files for ext3; 2EiB volumes, 16TiB files for ext4.

HFS+ (hierarchical file system plus): Mac, 8EiB volumes and 8EiB files.

FDE is on the exam, too, but you already know alllllll about that.
