---
layout: post
title: CompTIA A+ Part 9
date: 2020-09-03 22:43:00
last_modified_at: 2020-09-02 22:43:00
---

### Networking

A local area network (LAN) is a small network physically connected to a router, switch, or hub, either through wires or through radio waves.

Ethernet is the predominant networking standard. Ethernet defines a number of things, such as cable types, speeds, etc. but the important part for now is that it packetizes data into discrete chunks of 1500 Bytes.

Each 1500 Byte chunk is called a frame.

Each device on the network is uniquely identified with a media access control (MAC) address.

The first half (6 hexadecimal digits) of the MAC address are the OEM ID. The last half is unique.

An ethernet frame is made up of:  
Destination MAC -> Source MAC -> Data -> FCS (frame check sequence)

No IP addresses needed in a LAN, those come in at the WAN (wide area network) level.

A hub is a central device which connects other devices in a LAN. A hub is a simple repeater, sending a copy of every frame received to every other connected host. Hosts check the destination MAC on the frame and discard frames that are not for them.

This results in a lot of collisions and slowdowns when multiple hosts are attempting to network.

Switches are more intelligent than hubs and keep track of the MAC addresses of connected hosts, so that it can send traffic only to the correct destination host.

Hexadecimal is a notation used to more easily represent binary. Four binary digits make up one hexadecimal digit. 0000 is 0, 1111 is f. Each hexadecimal digit represents 2<sup>4</sup>=16 possibilities.

MAC addresses are 12 hexadecimal digits long, so they are 48 binary digits (bits) long.

The Ethernet standard is limited: you can only connect 1024 hosts in a LAN (on a single switch or a number of daisy-chained switches).

Because we need to network larger numbers of hosts, and across larger distances (Cat cables only run up to 100m), we need to make multiple LANs and connect them with a WAN. We also need a new addressing scheme and a new box.

Routers are the boxes we use to connect to WANs. Routers are different from switches because they deal with IP addresses instead of MAC addresses. IP addresses are logical addresses, not hardware addresses, that we use to identify the different LANs in a WAN.

Each device in a LAN has a unique IP address. IP addresses are represented as four binary octets, such as 192.168.0.12. The first 3 or so octets will be the same across the LAN, and the last octet will be unique to each device.

The router connected to the LAN is the default gateway, the gateway the LAN uses to access the WAN. The default gateway defines the common parts of the IP addresses in the LAN (in this case, the default gateway is 192.168.0.1).

Coaxial cables. RG-58, RG-59, RG-6. RG-58 is rather dated, but do know the others.

RG-6 use F-type connectors, think cable TV.

RG-58 used a BNC connector which were not threaded, you pushed them in and twisted.

Twisted pair cables are the dominant type of cabling today.

UTP (unshielded twisted pair) is the most common. Usually 4 pairs. The twists help to propogate the signal and achieve greater distances.

The ethernet standard allows cables up to 100m long.

Phone cables had 2 UTPs and used an RJ-11 connector. RJ-45 use 4 UTP and is what we mostly use for computer networks.

Shielded twisted pair (STP) wraps the pairs in shielding to protect from EMF and other forms of interference.

Fiber optic cable uses light rather than electricity to transmit the signal. It is very fast.

Fiber optics are either multimode (LED) or singlemode (laser). Multimode is more common in networks, but singlemode can achieve long distances (several km).

"Ethernet" cables are given Cat ratings that define speeds and distances.

| Cat | Speed |
| --- | --- |
| Cat5 | 100Mbps |
| Cat5e | 1Gbps |
| Cat6 | 1Gbps-10Gbps up to 55m |
| Cat6a | 10Gbps |

Plenum ratings define fire resistance. PVC (non-plenum) is inexpensive but rather flammable and not suitable for use in drop ceilings or raised floors. Plenum rated cable is much more resistant to fire. Riser rated cable is in between, and is used to connect things across different floors in a building.

Learn how to crimp cables.

Crimps have a Cat rating too, so make sure you have the right kind of crimps for your cable.

We've got two standards for wire order: TIA 568A and TIA 568B.

TIA 568A: GW, G, OW, B, BW, O, BrW, Br

TIA 568B: OW, O, GW, B, BW, G, BrW, Br

The Blue and Brown wires stay the same.

In A, green comes before orange (A for alphabetical).

The distance between the last twist and the punchdown must be .5"

Use a cable tester to test your cable.

A straight-through cable uses the same standard on both sides.

A crossover cable uses opposite standards on either side. You can use these to connect two computers directly together.

Structured cabling is a standard for cable management.

You start in the MDF (main distribution frame) with an equipment rack. The rack is 19" wide, and is broken up vertically by a unit called a "u", roughtly how tall most networking equipment is.

You mount your switches and stuff on the rack.

A horizontal run is a length of cable from the patch panel to the wall panels that users plug into. Then you run a patch cable from the patch panel to the switch.

The longest run you can have is 90m (less than 100m to compensate for up to 10m of patch cable).

Patch panel uses 110 punchdowns, not RJ-45, in the back.

Tone generator and probe is used to locate cables, in case you don't know which wall outlet goes to which cable in the patch panel.
