---
layout: post
title: CompTIA A+ Part 6
date: 2020-09-02 18:50:00
last_modified_at: 2020-09-02 18:50:00
---

### Mass Storage

SSDs are the dominant form of mass storage today, especially for boot drives where speed is more important.

Data on SSDs are stored in blocks, which are organized into pages.

2.5" is the most common size, but M.2 is quickly taking over.

The 2.5" SSDs use traditional SATA connectors, but the SATA interface caps at 6 Gbps. The NVMe standard (non-volatile memory express) was designed to overcome this limitation and uses the M.2 connector.

NVMe interfaces directly with the system, and does not need to use LBA.

There are M.2 drives that use SATA speeds, so make sure you get the right interface for your motherboard.

Your system can boot from a number of different types of mass storage, including HDDs, SSDs, USB drives, etc. You can set the boot order in BIOS. The system will attempt to boot from each device, starting with the first in the boot order list, until it successfully finds a bootable device.

Partitioning and formatting must happen before you can use any mass storage device.

On a new installation, the installation media should come with at least basic partitioning and formatting tools to handle this.

### RAID

RAID (redundant array of inexpensive disks) is a way to connect multiple disks together in different ways to improve performance or data redundancy.

RAID 0, or striping, provides increased speed by "striping" data across two drives: some data is written to one drive, while other data is simultaneously written to another drive.

RAID 1, or mirroring, provides data redundancy by "mirroring" data across two drives: the same data is written to each drive.

RAID 0 provides no redundancy, while RAID 1 can decrease performance.

RAID 5, or parity striping, requires a minimum of 3 drives. Data is striped across two drives, and parity data is written on the third. If any one drive is lost, the drive can be replaced and the data restored using the parity data.

RAID 6 requires a minimum of 4 drives. Data is striped across 2 drives, and parity data is written to the other 2. Up to 2 drives can be lost without losing data.

RAID 10, or striping mirrors, requires 4 drives. The drives are organized into 2 mirrored pairs. Data is mirrored across the first pair, then striped across the other pair. You can lose one mirror on either side without losing data, but losing two drives from the same pair results in data loss.

RAID 0+1, or mirrored stripe, requires 4 drives. The drives are organized into 2 striped pairs. Some data is written to one drive in a pair, then to the other, and the whole pair is mirrored to the other pair. You can lose one complete striped pair on either side without losing data, but losing one drive on either side results in data loss.

RAID can be set up as hardware RAID in BIOS, or software RAID in the operating system. Hardware RAID requires a compatible motherboard or RAID controller card.

There are also proprietary forms of RAID which offer advanced features, but nobody knows how they work.

### Mass Storage Troubleshooting

Backup your data!

When an installation goes wrong, do a mental reinstall. Check, recheck, and recheck again.

For RAID issues, make sure your RAID controller is active, double check your BIOS settings, and double check the physical connections.

S.M.A.R.T. allows us to query drives and get an idea of their health.

The solution for read/write errors is usually to replace the drive.

Slow performance is not usually a mass storage problem. You likely have insufficient RAM or swap.

Loud clicking noises are an indicator of a failing drive. Replace it.

Failure to boot likely indicates an issue with boot order. If not, use Windows Recovery to repair the boot partition.

OS not found also usually indicates an issue with boot order.

Continuous reboots are rarely mass storage issues, but can indicate corruption in the operating system.

### Optical Media

CD (compact disc) was originally designed to digitally store music. Capacities were 74 minutes and 80 minutes.

CD-ROM (compact disc read-only-memory) was developed to allow storing other types of data on CD. CD-ROM uses CDFS (CD file system).

CD-R (CD recordable) allowed users to burn their own data to a CD.

CD-RW (CD rewriteable) could be rewritten.

Speeds such as 52x were multiples of the original CD speed. Capacities were measured in both MB and minutes, eg 700 MB, 80 min.

| CD type | Capacity |
| --- | --- |
| CD-ROM | 650-700MB |
| CD-R | 650-700MB |
| CD-RW | 650-700MB |

DVD (digital video disc) succeeded CD. DVD was originally designed to store video.

DVD-ROM was invented to store other types of data.

DVD-ROMs could be dual-layered, with data stored at two different layers that were read by different lasers, or double-sided.

| DVD version | Capacity |
| --- | --- |
| DVD-5 (12cm, SS/SL) | 4.37GB |
| DVD-9 (12 cm, SS/DL) | 7.95GB |
| DVD-10 (12 cm, DS/SL) | 8.74GB |
| DVD-18 (12 cm, DS/DL) | 15.90GB |

There were several variants of writeable DVDs with several competing standards. Today, any optical drive can read and write any standard.

Blu-ray Discs were designed for high definition movies.

| Blu-ray type | Size | Capacity (SL) | Capacity (DL) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Standard disc | 12 cm | 25 GB | 50 GB |
| Mini disc | 8 cm | 7.8 GB | 15.6 GB |

Blu-ray discs can also be written to: BD-R (Blu-ray Disc Recordable) and BD-RE (Blu-Ray Recordable Erasable).

Almost all modern optical drives handle all of the above discs and standards. They use SATA connectors.

Most optical drives also have a way to manually eject discs without power, in case you unplug the drive without removing the disc.

### USB

Most modern peripherals use USB.

| Version | Speed |
| --- | --- |
| USB 1.1 | 1.5 Mbps/12 Mbps |
| USB 2.0 | 480 Mbps |
| USB 3.0 | 5 Gbps |
| USB 3.1 Gen 1 | 5 Gbps |
| USB 3.1 Gen 2 | 10 Gbps |

USB Type-A connector is the rectangular one you plug into your PC.

USB Type-B connector is the D-shaped one that you find on printers.

USB mini-B is the old keystone-shaped one that you find on old cameras.

USB micro-B is the one that last-gen Android phones use.

USB 3.0 micro-B has an additional piece to handle the increased data throughput, and is backward compatible with regular micro-B.

USB Type-C is the one you see on most modern devices. It can handle incredible speeds and can be plugged in either direction.

Most of these standards are backwards compatible. You can use USB 3.1 devices on USB 2.0 ports, at the 2.0 speeds.

There is a loose color code that most manufacturers follow. White indicates USB 1.1. Black indicates USB 2.0. Blue indicates USB 3.0 or 3.1 Gen 1. Teal indicates USB 3.1. Red, orange, or yellow indicate charging ports.
