---
layout: post
title: CompTIA A+ Part 1
date: 2020-08-27 20:57:00
last_modified_at: 2020-08-27 20:57:00
---

In addition to learning web dev, I'm also studying for the CompTIA A+ 220-1001 and 220-1002 exams. These are my study notes.

### About the A+

CompTIA is a vendor-neutral IT certification vendor.

In order to earn an A+ certification (entry-level), two exams must be passed. We will start with the 220-1001.

The 220-1001 consists of 90 questions, with a 90 minute time limit. Questions are multiple choice or performance-based (simulations). The exam is graded on a scale of 100-900, and a score of 675 is required to pass.

The exam categories are weighted as follow:

| Domain | Percentage |
| --- | --- |
| Mobile Devices | 14% |
| Networking | 20% |
| Hardware | 27% |
| Virtualization and Cloud Computing | 12% |
| Hardware and Network Troubleshooting | 27% |
| **Total** | **100%** |

Mobile Devices encompasses smartphones (iOS, Android), tablets, e-readers, GPS devices, heart rate monitors, etc.

Networking encompasses network hardware (cabling, routers, switches, firewalls), standards (802.11, SSIDs, etc.), and network configuration and troubleshooting.

Hardware encompasses motherboards, CPUs, memory, storage, PSUs, displays, GPUs, connectors, etc.

Virtualization and Cloud Computing encompasses hypervisors, virtual machines, AWS-like cloud services, etc.

Troubleshooting encompasses techniques for identifying and solving common IT problems.

### Tools

A smartphone is an essential tool for IT techs, enabling you to do research on the fly.

A #2 Phillips screwdriver is also essential.

One of those screwdrivers with slot-in tips is also helpful, as devices often use a variety of types/sizes of screws.

Hemostats and tweezers are useful for picking up dropped screws and handling small parts.

Kits are available for small devices like laptops and smartphones. These kits include precision screwdrivers, spudgers, pry bars, etc.

Voltage testers and multimeters are useful for diagnosing power/electrical problems.

It's always helpful to have flash drives with your favorite software tools.

### Troubleshooting

CompTIA has a specific troubleshooting procedure that you need to know for the exam. There are conflicting opinions about the efficacy of this of this procedure, but you have to know it anyway.

In the field, corporate policies take precedence over this procedure. Make sure you are familiar with the policies of the companies you work with.

1. Identify the problem
    - Question the user
    - Investigate environmental changes
    - Check logs
2. Establish a theory of probable cause (question the obvious)
3. Test the theory to determine cause
    - Escalate the issue if necessary
4. Establish a plan of action to resolve the problem and implement the solution
5. Verify full functionality and implement preventative measures
    - End user education
6. Document findings, actions, and outcomes

### Hardware: Peripherals

System unit: the whole damn thing

Keyboard and mouse: peripherals that enable human interaction

Printer: provide paper output

Speakers: provide sound output

Joysticks: specialized input devices for gaming

Webcam: provide video input

External hard drive: external, portable mass storage

Headset: provide isolated sound output and sound input via microphone

Microphone: provide sound input

### Hardware: External Connections

Universal Serial Bus (USB)

Network cable connections: provide wired Internet access via RJ45 plugs

Sound connectors (3.5mm jacks)

Video connectors: Digital Visual Interface (DVI), DisplayPort, High-Definition Multimedia Interface (HDMI), Video Graphics Array (VGA)

Power connector

mini-DIN (PS/2) connectors: legacy connectors for keyboard and mouse, purple for keyboard, teal for mouse

Parallel (LTP) port: legacy connector almost exclusively for printers

Anti-theft connector: connects to laptop lock

SD card reader

Most system units have some sound connectors and USB ports in the front of the chassis for easy access.
