---
layout: post
title: CompTIA A+ Part 15
date: 2020-09-14 20:05:00
last_modified_at: 2020-09-14 20:05:00
---

### 220-1002

We're gonna cover operating systems (primarily Windows but a little OSX and Linux thrown in), security (including firewalls, physical security, etc), software troubleshooting, and operational procedures.

90 questions, multiple choice/performance, 90 minutes. 700 on a scale of 100-900 to pass.

| Domain | Percentage of Examination |
| --- | --- |
| Operating Systems | 27% |
| Security | 24% |
| Software Troubleshooting | 26% |
| Operational Procedures | 23% |

### Professional Communication

Be on time. Contact the client if you're running behind.

Active listening.

Clarify customer statements. Use open-ended questions.

Maintain a positive attitude and project confidence. Put the client at ease. Avoid being critical or correcting the client too much.

Use proper language. Avoid jargon and slang.

Set and meet expectations and communicate them to the client.

Be culturally sensitive.

Use professional titles when applicable.

Avoid distractions while working with the client.

Don't snoop.

Don't argue or be defensive.

Follow up and verify satisfaction.

Offer alternatives, especially if they are more cost effective.

### Physical Safety

Disconnect power before doing anything.

Ground equipment.

Use anti-static wristband and mat.

Secure your ties, dangling jewelry, sleeves, etc.

Keep a fire extinguisher around (A for wood, B for grease, C for electrical).

When lifting, bend at the knees and keep your back straight.

Don't life more than 25 pounds unassisted (a coworker or dolly).

### Operating System Basics

The kernel is built into the OS. It handles primary memory management.

Every running process has a PID (process ID) which you can find in Task Manager, Resource Monitor, etc.

Device drivers enable the OS to communicate with any given piece of hardware (Device Manager).

All modern OSes store stuff hierarchically in folders and files.

You log into your OS with a username and password.

Passwords are stored as hashes.

All OSes have different account types. Privileged users are usually called Administrators or Super Users.

Windows is the predominant OS today because of per-processor agreements made with Intel back in the day.

Windows was also a pioneer in making networking easy without specialized knowledge with Domains (now called Active Directory). This uses SSO (single sign-on).

Windows comes in several editions.

Home editions are for SOHO settings and often lack basic features such as Domains, but do include some extra features such as media tools.

Workstation editions include all the basic features such as Domains.

Enterprise editions are for large organizations and have special administration features.

There are some other editions but they won't be on the exam.

There are also "versions" of Windows: 7, 8, 8.1, and 10.

Windows 7 included Media Center (not to be confused with Windows Media Player). Something similar could be purchased for 8, 8.1, but it is not available for Windows 10.

Windows 7 used the classic Start menu.

Most Windows 7 configuration was done through Control Panel.

Windows 8 was designed to be touchscreen friendly. The Start menu was replaced by the Metro Desktop and Tiles.

Windows 8 introduced the Microsoft Store.

Beginning with Windows 8, some configurations were moved from Control Panel to Settings via the Charms Bar.

Windows 8.1 reintroduced a version of the Start button.

Windows 10 is the current version: Windows is now abandoning the numbering system.

The Charms Bar has been removed and the Start menu reimplemented with integrated Tiles.
